.. _ad-gmsl522-sl hardware:

Hardware Guide
==============

Overview
--------

The **AD-GMSL522-SL GMSL Carrier Board** (also referred as Viper board) is a
higher resolution NVIDIA Jetson based carrier board for converting RAW camera
data from GMSL cameras/Deserializers into display data.

It is compatible with Maxim deserializer/serializer EV kits and has 4 GMSL inputs
and 2 GMSL outputs.

It is a user-friendly GMSL platform for receiving and transmitting data over a
GMSL link. The platform enables NPI, demonstrations, customer, and ecosystem
development. This platform has hardware interconnects and software tools that
enable customers in their development of GMSL.

.. figure:: ad-gmsl522-sl_block_diagram.png
    :width: 600 px

    AD-GMSL522-SL Simplified Block Diagram

Carrier Board Feature List
--------------------------

- Connection to Jetson Xavier NX

  * 260-pin SO-DIMM connector

- GMSL/CSI inputs

  * SAMTEC – compatible with MAXIM EvKits to CSI inputs of the SOM
  * 4xFakra connectors to MAX96724 GMSL to CSI deserializer

- GMSL outputs

  * MAX96717 CSI to GMSL serializer

- USB

  * USB 2.0 Micro B (device only)
  * USB 2.0 Micro B (debug)
  * USB 2.0 Type A
  * USB 3.0 Type A

- Wired Network

  * Gigabit Ethernet (RJ45 connector)

- Display

  * HDMI™ Type A (v2.0a/b)

- M.2 Key M connector

  * PCIe (Gen4) x4 lane, control

- MicroSD Card
- UI and indicators

  * Reset header: power, reset, and force recovery

- LEDs: Power
- Miscellaneous

  * Fan connector: 5 V, PWM and tach

- Power

  * DC Jack: 12V, 8A input
  * Main 5V supply: MAX25206ATPA
  * Main 3.3V supply: MAX25206ATPA
  * Main 1.8V, 1.2V, 1V supplies: LTC3303ARUCM

- Developer kit operating temperature range

  * 0⁰C to 35⁰C

Power
-----

Power Input
~~~~~~~~~~~

The AD-GMSL522-SL has a single 12 V supply input, distributed to the internal
power supplies and interface connectors.

The power adapter to be used with AD-GMSL522-SL needs to have the following
specifications:

- 12 V output, and at least 8 A output current ability.
- Mating barrel jack connector dimensions: 2.50 mm ID (0.098“), 5.50 mm OD (0.217”), with positive center pin.

The ADM1177 hot swap controller monitors current and voltage via an on-chip,
12-bit analog-to-digital converter. The ADM1177 charges up the gate of the FET
to turn on the load. It continues to charge up the GATE pin until the linear
current limit (set to 100 mV/RSENSE) is reached. On this carrier board RSENSE is
0.01Ω which sets the current limit at 10 A. The input voltage and current can be
read from this device by accessing it at the 0xB4 I2C address.

Power Supplies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: viper_power_tree.png

   AD-GMSL522-SL Power Tree

The main DC-DC power supply is a MAX25206ATPA/VY+ converter. This powers up the
Xavier NX module and a few other loads on the carrier board. It is designed for
12 V input and 5V, 5A output. The default configuration is for the fixed output
version, with the FB pin connected to BIAS. FSYNC and SPS are user configurable
by changing the soldering of P22 P23. The Clock Output SYNCOUT outputs 180
degrees out of phase relative to the internal oscillator. In the design, this
output is connected to the synchronization inputs of the other supplies, with
the option to disconnect it if needed.

The ADM7160 is an 1V8 output LDO used in creating the power sequence needed for
the SOM power-up. It powers U45 bus buffer, used to isolate the EN_CR_SUPPLIES
signal from SYS_RESET*pin of the SOM.

The 3V3 rail is implemented using another MAX25206ATPA/VY+ but with adjustable
output. It is enabled by the SOM after it has POWER_EN high. This can be
synchronized with the SYNCOUT of the 5 V supply, or can be user configurable if
R236 is desoldered. This will supply various circuits on the board and will
serve as the input supply of the converters for the lower rails.

1V0, 1V2 and 1V8 rails are implemented with a LTC3303ARUCM#TRPBF each, the
difference is in the feedback resistors used. They are enabled by default by
PGOOD_3V3, but if the timing requirements are not met, they can be enabled by
the EN_CR_SUPPLIES signal, together with the 3V3 supply. To achieve this R184
should be depopulated and R185 R395 should be populated. These supplies can be
synchronized with the main 5 V supply, or have the MODE/SYNC pin conventionally
pulled high or low.

If the power-up sequence was successful and the supplies are in the operating
range, DS9 will be ON.

All the supplies are monitored by the onboard voltage monitor AD7291BCPZ (U40).
The voltages are divided at the input because the device has an on-chip 2.5 V
reference. The AD7291 provides a 2-wire serial interface compatible with I2C
interfaces and has the following I2C address: 0x2FF


Power Sequence
--------------

The power-up sequence is similar to the one implemented in the official NVIDIA
Jetson Nano carrier board. The circuit will provide at least 430 ms delay
between SHUTDOWN_REQ and POWER_EN.

U38 and U44 are connected to form a SR latch with NAND gates. POWER_EN has 100k
pull-down on module, so initial state is always 0.

**Jumper on P11 pins 9 and 10 - Auto-power-on enabled**

At power-on, both LATCH_SET and LATCH_RESET are pulled-up to VDD_5V_SYS.

Both C287 and C323 are charging, C323 will charge faster resulting in
LATCH_RESET HIGH while LATCH_SET LOW => so POWER_EN is enabled, and the SOM is
powered on. When C297 charges, LATCH_SET will change state to HIGH, but in this
case the output of the latch remembers the previous state so POWER_EN also will
keep it state.

If SHUTDOWN_REQ* is pulled low then LATCH_RESET is pulled low so the output
will reset and POWER_EN goes low. But since SHUTDOWN_REQ* is not driven during
power-up, it will go high again when deasserted but there will be no change on
POWER_EN.

If the board is in the state when POWER_EN is HIGH (SET=1) and the user forces
shutdown pulling PWR_BTN* low then Q11 will open and LATCH_RESET will be LOW
resulting in POWER_EN LOW.

The board will remain off until the power cable is plugged back in again
(LATCH_SET is always HIGH as long as VDD_5V_SYS is present)

**Jumper on P11 pins 7 and 8 - Auto-power-on disabled**

At power on, both LATCH_SET and LATCH_RESET are pulled-up to VDD_5V_SYS. U26 has
Hi-Z output until C323 is charged and LATCH_RESET is HIGH. The time constant for
C297 is significantly decreased since now R292 and R389 are in parallel so
LATCH_SET will be HIGH after 0.011ms while C323 is charging slower, LATCH_RESET
is HIGH After ~10 ms. This results in a LOW state for POWER_EN. When PWR_BTN* is
pressed, LATCH_SET changes state to 0, resulting in HIGH on POWER_EN

If SHUTDOWN_REQ* is pulled low, then LATCH_RESET is pulled low so the output of
the latch is reset to 0 and POWER_EN goes low.

But since SHUTDOWN_REQ* is not driven during power-up, it will go high again so
LATCH_RESET=1 and output of U26 becomes active. Now it is possible to power on
back the board using the PWR_BTN* signal and not by unplugging the power cable.
If pins 1 and 2 of P11 are connected for a short time, at least 50 ms, this will
result in LATCH_SET going LOW while LATCH_RESET is HIGH so POWER_EN will go HIGH
and the SOM powers on. When releasing the pins 1 and 2 LATCH_SET will be HIGH
again, but no change will be seen at the at the output of the latch.

Power over Coax
---------------

The AD-GMSL522-SL carrier board is designed to send power as well as data over
coax cables, enabling to power remote devices such as automotive cameras without
the need for extra wiring or power circuitry.

There is a power over coax (PoC) filter for each GMSL input connector that
covers the forward and reverse channel frequency bands.

MAX20087 camera power protector is used to provide protection on the PoC. This
is a quad camera protector that delivers 500 mA load current per channel. Each
output is individually protected from short and overcurrent conditions.

By default, the 12 V supply that is supposed to power the remote devices is
connected to the outputs of the camera power protector with 0 Ohm resistors
R401, R403, R407, R405. This will limit the current per channel to 500 mA, but
in case more current is needed and the 12 V supply allows this, R402, R404,
R408, R406 can be populated instead of R401, R403, R407, R405 and the devices
will be powered directly from the 12 V supply without any current limitation, or
protection.

Inputs
------

CSI Inputs-Samtec Connector
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A QTH-030-01-L-D-A high speed connector is present on the bottom of the board.
GMSL to CSI deserializer EV Kits can be connected here. In the default
configuration, if an EvKit is mounted on the carrier board, it will not be
supplied by the carrier board. R136, R153, R152 can be soldered on the carrier
to connect the Evkit to the power supplies of the AD-GMSL522-SL carrier board.

.. important::

   Please check the board and don’t plug the power supply of the
   Evkit connected to P1 if R152 is installed!

The GPIO signals from this connector are routed to GPIO pins of Xavier NX which
are CMOS – 1.8V Type. Please make sure that the GPIO pins of the Evkit are
configured to be supplied by the 1V8 VDDIO.

12 MIPI CSI lanes (CSI0-CSI3) of the XavierNX are routed to this connector,
supporting either 4x2, 2x4 CSI-2 DPHY v1.2 configurations.


GMSL (Deserializer)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J1, J2, J3, J4 Fakra connectors(59S2AQ-40MT5-Z_1) on the right side of the board
are connected to the inputs of MAX96724GTN/VY+. This provides reliable platform
to evaluate the MAX96724 device using standard FAKRA coaxial cables. This
deserializer device support high-bandwidth, gigabit multimedia serial links
(GMSL-1 or GMSL-2) and offers spread spectrum and full-duplex control channel
features.


On-board SERDES
---------------

Quad Deserializer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**MAX96724GTN/VY+ Quad tunneling GMSL2/1 to CSI-2 deserializer**

Port B D-PHY signals of the MAX96724 are routed to MIPI D-PHY inputs of Xavier.

Configuration pins are used to set desired working modes during powerup for the
deserializer.

There are two digital I2C configurable potentiometers VR8 and VR1 on the board
to set the CFG pin levels. Alternatively, rework the 0 Ω resistors to connect
the analog voltage divider and tune the voltage manually. Voltages on CFG pins
can be monitored through CFG0 and CFG1 test points (TP27, TP30).

The digital potentiometers in the MAX5419 series are controlled through the I2C
signals: MAX96724_CFG_SCL, MAX96724_CFG_SDA.

Address of I2C potentiometers for CFG pins of MAX96724.

The default state of the configuration pins of the MAX96724 set the device into
the following state: GMSL-2, 6 Gbps

.. tip::

   If the state of the configuration pins needs to be changed, please
   refer to the MAX96724 data sheet to see the recommended resistor values to
   select each configuration.


Single Serializer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**MAX96717GTJ/VY+ CSI-2 to GMSL2 serializer**

The AD-GMSL522-SL provides a proven design to evaluate the MAX96717
high-bandwidth GMSL serializer with spread spectrum and full-duplex control
channel with the use of a standard FAKRA coaxial cable.

The CSI interface of the MAX96717 is connected to MAX9674.

Configuration pins are used to set desired working modes during power-up for the
serializer. There are two digital I2C configurable potentiometers VR5 and VR4 on
the board to set the CFG pin levels. Alternatively, rework the 0 Ω resistors to
connect the analog voltage divider and tune the voltage manually. Voltages on
CFG pins can be monitored through CFG0 and CFG1 test points (TP47, TP48).

The digital potentiometers in the MAX5419 series are controlled through the I2C
signals: MAX96717_CFG_SCL, MAX96717_CFG_SDA.

Address of I2C potentiometers for CFG pins of MAX96724

.. tip::

   If the state of the configuration pins needs to be changed, please
   refer to the MAX96717 data sheet to see the recommended resistor values to
   select each configuration.

Outputs
-------

HDMI
~~~~

HDMI Type A connector (P10) is directly routed to the HDMI V2.0 interface
supported by the Xavier NX module.

GMSL (Serializer)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

J7 is the Fakra connector that is tied to the MAX96717 GMSL output pin. It is
labeled on the board silkscreen as “OUT MAX96717”. This connection does not
support Power-over-Coax due to the fact that the AD-GMSL522-SL board has its
own power supply. This does not mean that a deserializer board with
Power-over-Coax enabled cannot be connected to this connection. This output
can be used to evaluate deserializer designs or to emulate a camera device via
sending a colorbar from the deserializer.

Other Interfaces
----------------

USB
~~~

Jetson Xavier NX supports up to three USB 2.0 ports and a single USB 3.2 port.
On AD-GMSL522-SL, the USB interfaces are used as follows:

Ethernet
~~~~~~~~

M1 is a RJ45 Gigabit ethernet connector that has all the
necessary magnetics integrated.

MicroSD card
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The AD-GMSL522-SL carrier board brings the SDMMC
interface from the connector pins for SD card use. P12 is a surface mount,
right angle connector, for microSD™ card.

NVMe
~~~~

The AD-GMSL522-SL board includes an M.2 Key M NVMe Expansion
slot (P5). The PCIE signals are routed to PCIE0 interface of the Xavier NX
Module. This supports up to Gen4 speed.


Fan Connector
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The AD-GMSL522-SL carrier board includes a 4-pin Fan
header (P26). This connector is compatible with 70797 Auvidea Cooling Kit.

Reset Header
~~~~~~~~~~~~

System signals such as POWER_BTN*, FORCE_RECOVERY*, SYS_RESET*, are brought to a standard 0.254 mm pitch header P11.


+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| **Pin** | **Signal**       | **Usage/Description**                          |
+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| 1       | PWR_BTN\*        | Connect Pins 1 and 2 to initiate POWER-ON (if  |
|         |                  | AUTO POWER-ON is disabled)                     |
+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| 2       | GND              |                                                |
+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| 3       | FORCE_RECOVERY\* | Connect Pins 3 and 4 during POWER-ON for USB   |
|         |                  | FORCE RECOVERY MODE                            |
+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| 4       | GND              |                                                |
+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| 5       | SYS_RESET\*      | Temporarily connect Pins 5 and 6 to reset the  |
|         |                  | system                                         |
+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| 6       | GND              |                                                |
+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| 7       | AUTO_PWR_ON      | Jumper on Pins 7 and 8 to disable AUTO         |
|         |                  | POWER-ON                                       |
+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| 8       | LATCH_SET        |                                                |
+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| 9       | Not used         | Jumper on Pins 9 and 10: AUTO POWER-ON is      |
|         |                  | enabled                                        |
+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+
| 10      | Not used         |                                                |
+---------+------------------+------------------------------------------------+

.. admonition:: Download

  - :download:`AD-GMSL522-SL schematics <02_074767b_top_public.pdf>`
